PlasmaPy v0.5.0 (2020-12-09)
============================

This release of PlasmaPy contains 58 commits in 31 merged pull requests
closing 16 issues from 8 people, 4 of which are first-time contributors
to PlasmaPy.

The people who have contributed to the code for this release are:

* Dominik Stańczak
* Nick Murphy
* Peter Heuer
* Ramiz Qudsi  *
* Steve Richardson  *
* Tiger D  *
* W. Cody Skinner  *
* rocco8773

Where a * indicates their first contribution to PlasmaPy.

Backwards Incompatible Changes
------------------------------

- Created `plasmapy.dispersion` in accordance with PlasmaPy Enhancement Proposal 7
  (`PLEP 7 <https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy-PLEPs/blob/main/PLEP-0007.rst>`_)
  and migrated the dispersion functionality (:file:`dispersionfunction.py`) from
  `plasmapy.formulary` to `plasmapy.dispersion`. (`#910 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/910>`__)
- Removed default values for the ``ion`` and ``particle`` arguments of functions contained in ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters``, in accordance with :issue:`453`, and updated all relevant calls to modified functionality. (`#911 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/911>`__)
- Moved test helper exceptions from ``plasmapy.utils.pytest_helpers`` to ``plasmapy.tests.helpers``. (`#919 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/919>`__)
- Updated ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.mass_density`` so it calculates the mass
  density for a specific particle from a given number density.  Original function
  calculated the total mass density (ion + electron). (`#957 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/957>`__)


Features
--------

- Added a function to calculate the power spectrum of thermal bremsstrahlung emitted by a Maxwellian plasma. (`#892 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/892>`__)
- Added support for multiple electron components to diagnostics.thomson.spectral_density. Also fixed a bug for multiple ion populations. (`#893 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/893>`__)
- Added dependency ``pygments >= 2.4.1``. (`#898 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/898>`__)
- Created the `plasmapy.analysis` package as per
  `PLEP 7 <https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy-PLEPs/blob/main/PLEP-0007.rst>`_ and
  initialize the package with the `~plasmapy.analysis.fit_functions` module.  Fit
  functions are designed to wrap together an analytical function, a curve fitter,
  uncertainty propagation, and a root solver to make curve fitting a little less
  painful. (`#908 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/908>`__)
- Created a new subpackage, ``plasmapy.tests.helpers``, to contain test helper functionality. (`#919 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/919>`__)
- Created decorator `~plasmapy.utils.decorators.helpers.modify_docstring`, which allows
  for programmatically prepending and/or appending a docstring. (`#943 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/943>`__)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Allowed implicit conversions of AstroPy units in inputs and outputs of validated functions to happen without warnings. Most notably, this removes warnings on eV inputs to temperature fields. (`#886 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/886>`__)
- Updated ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.Alfven_speed`` to properly use the updated
  ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.mass_density`` and maintain the same behavior.
  Also added handling of the ``ion`` input keyword, so `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle` and
  the `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle` convertible representations can be used as inputs. (`#957 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/957>`__)


Improved Documentation
----------------------

- Improved the release guide after the release of 0.4.0. (`#872 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/872>`__)
- Added various improvements to the documentation.
      * Replaced home link with the plasmapy logo.
      * Added module and index navigation links to sidebar header.
      * Replaced raw html on the main page that simulates a ``nbgallery`` with a real
        ``nbgallery`` directive.
      * Moved link to view page source code from the header to footer.
      * Added link to footer the jumps the user back to the top of the page.
      * Created and added custom CSS stylesheet.
      * Created :file:`_templates` directory and templates to customize page elements. (`#875 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/875>`__)
- Added static stub files to :file:`docs/api_static` so all modules of `plasmapy` are indexed.
  This is necessary to expose all of `plasmapy` since not all modules are indexed in
  the narrative documentation. (`#878 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/878>`__)
- Decomposed sub-package ``plasmapy/utils/roman/`` into the :file:`plasmapy/utils/roman.py`
  file.  Moveed definition of ``roman`` specific exceptions into
  `plasmapy.utils.exceptions`. (`#883 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/883>`__)
- Replaced references to ``Riot.im`` with references to ``Element.io`` or Matrix, as appropriate, following their recent rebranding. (`#891 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/891>`__)
- Updated the information on how to cite PlasmaPy, including in the release guide. (`#900 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/900>`__)


Trivial/Internal Changes
------------------------

- Applied isort to entire codebase, bringing it back to the pre-commit hook suite. (`#857 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/857>`__)
- Expanded package metadata contained in ``codemeta.json``, following the CodeMeta standard. (`#902 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/902>`__)
- Changed remaining instances of @u.quantity_input to @validate_quantities in response to issue #880. (`#905 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/905>`__)
- Switched from Azure Pipelines to GitHub Actions for PR tests to make things
  easier for contributors. Moved away from Travis CI for test cron jobs. (`#952 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/952>`__)
