PlasmaPy v2023.5.0 (2023-05-31)
===============================

Backwards Incompatible Changes
------------------------------

- The signature of `~plasmapy.formulary.relativity.relativistic_energy`
  has changed. The parameter ``m`` has been replaced with ``particle``,
  which now accepts a broader variety of |particle-like| arguments,
  including but not limited to a |Quantity| representing mass. The
  parameter ``v`` has been replaced with ``V`` for consistency with other
  functionality. (:pr:`1871`)
- Changed the minimum required version of Python from 3.8 to 3.9.
  Accordingly, increased the minimum versions of ``numpy`` to ``1.21.0``,
  ``pandas`` to
  ``1.2.0``, ``h5py`` to ``3.1.0``, ``scipy`` to ``1.6.0``, ``voila`` to
  ``0.3.0``, and ``xarray`` to ``0.17.0``. (:pr:`1885`)
- Made |ParticleList| raise a `TypeError` when provided with a string.
  This change was made to avoid potentially ambiguous situations like
  :py:`ParticleList("He")` which was previously equivalent to
  :py:`ParticleList(["H", "e"])` instead of the possibly expected value of
  :py:`ParticleList(["He"])`. (:pr:`1892`)
- In `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical.two_fluid_.two_fluid`,
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.hollweg_.hollweg`, and
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.kinetic_alfven_.kinetic_alfven`
  in `plasmapy.dispersion`, providing the |charge number| as a keyword
  argument (now ``Z``, formerly ``z_mean``) will no longer override the
  charge number provided in ``ion``. (:pr:`2022`, :pr:`2181`, :pr:`2182`)
- |particle_input| no longer enforces that |parameters| named
  ``ionic_level`` are ions or neutral atoms. For equivalent behavior,
  name the parameter ``ion`` instead. (:pr:`2034`)
- Removed ``plasmapy.utils.pytest_helpers`` from PlasmaPy's public API. It is
  still available as ``plasmapy.utils._pytest_helpers``, but might be removed
  in the future. (:pr:`2114`)
- Removed ``plasmapy.tests.helpers`` from PlasmaPy's public API. It is
  still available as ``plasmapy.tests._helpers``, but might be removed in
  the future. (:pr:`2114`)
- The ``ion_species`` |parameter| to
  `~plasmapy.formulary.radiation.thermal_bremsstrahlung` has been renamed to
  ``ion`` in order to provide a more consistent API to functions that accept
  ions as arguments. (:pr:`2135`)


Deprecations and Removals
-------------------------

- In `plasmapy.dispersion`, the ``z_mean`` parameter
  to `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical.two_fluid_.two_fluid`,
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.hollweg_.hollweg`, and
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.kinetic_alfven_.kinetic_alfven` has
  been deprecated. Provide the |charge number| to ``Z`` instead.
  (:pr:`2022`, :pr:`2181`, :pr:`2182`)
- When a function decorated with |particle_input| is provided with
  ``z_mean`` as a keyword |argument|, it will change ``z_mean`` to ``Z``
  and issue a `~plasmapy.utils.exceptions.PlasmaPyDeprecationWarning` if
  the decorated function accepts ``Z`` as a parameter. This capability
  is intended to temporarily preserve the current behavior of several
  functions in `plasmapy.dispersion` and `plasmapy.formulary` as they get
  decorated with |particle_input| over the next few releases. (:pr:`2027`)
- The ``z_mean`` parameter to `~plasmapy.formulary.speeds.ion_sound_speed`
  and `~plasmapy.formulary.speeds.Alfven_speed` has been deprecated and
  may be removed in a future release. Use ``Z`` instead. (:pr:`2134`, :pr:`2179`)


Features
--------

- Added `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.kinetic_alfven_.kinetic_alfven`,
  which numerically solves dispersion relations for kinetic Alfvén waves.
  (:pr:`1665`)
- Added the :file:`stix_dispersion.ipynb` notebook
  which contains Stix cold-plasma dispersion examples. (:pr:`1693`)
- Added the `~plasmapy.formulary.frequencies.Buchsbaum_frequency` function.
  (:pr:`1828`)
- Decorated `~plasmapy.formulary.frequencies.gyrofrequency` with
  |particle_input| so that it can accept a broader variety of
  |particle-like| arguments. (:pr:`1869`)
- After having been decorated with |particle_input|, the
  `~plasmapy.formulary.relativity.relativistic_energy` function now
  accepts a broader variety of |particle-like| objects rather than only
  |Quantity| objects representing mass. (:pr:`1871`)
- After having been decorated with |particle_input|, |RelativisticBody|
  now accepts a broader variety of |particle-like| objects. (:pr:`1871`)
- Enabled |particle_input| to accept values of the |charge number| that
  are real numbers but not integers. This capability can now be used by
  many of the functions in `plasmapy.formulary` and elsewhere that are
  decorated with |particle_input|. (:pr:`1884`)
- Decorated `~plasmapy.particles.atomic.reduced_mass` with
  |particle_input| so that it can now accept a broader variety of
  |particle-like| arguments. (:pr:`1921`)
- Added the `plasmapy.analysis.time_series.excess_statistics` module
  including the
  `~plasmapy.analysis.time_series.excess_statistics.ExcessStatistics`
  class for calculating excess statistics of time series. (:pr:`1984`)
- Added `plasmapy.formulary.collisions.helio.collisional_analysis`.
  (:pr:`1986`)
- Enabled |ParticleList| to accept |Quantity| objects of physical type
  mass or electrical charge. (:pr:`1987`)
- The following functions have been decorated with |particle_input| and
  now accept a broader variety of |particle-like| arguments (see also
  :issue:`341`):

  - `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical.two_fluid_.two_fluid` (:pr:`2022`)
  - `~plasmapy.formulary.frequencies.plasma_frequency` (:pr:`2026`)
  - `~plasmapy.formulary.speeds.ion_sound_speed` (:pr:`2134`)
  - `~plasmapy.formulary.speeds.kappa_thermal_speed` (:pr:`2136`)
  - `~plasmapy.formulary.speeds.Alfven_speed` (:pr:`2179`)
  - `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.hollweg_.hollweg` (:pr:`2181`)
  - `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.kinetic_alfven_.kinetic_alfven` (:pr:`2182`)

- Refactored `~plasmapy.formulary.lengths.gyroradius` to reduce cognitive
  complexity and increase readability. (:pr:`2031`)
- Added ``mass_numb`` and ``Z`` as parameters to functions decorated
  with |particle_input| in `plasmapy.formulary.lengths`
  and `plasmapy.formulary.distribution`. (:pr:`2140`)


Bug Fixes
---------

- When attempting to create a |Particle| object representing a proton,
  calls like :py:`Particle("H", Z=1, mass_numb=1)` no longer incorrectly
  issue a |ParticleWarning| for redundant particle information. (:pr:`1992`)
- Updated the docstring of
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.numerical.kinetic_alfven_.kinetic_alfven`. (:pr:`2016`)
- Fixed a slight error in `~plasmapy.formulary.frequencies.plasma_frequency`
  and `~plasmapy.formulary.speeds.Alfven_speed` when the charge number was
  provided via ``z_mean`` (or now ``Z``) and inconsistent with the
  charge number provided to ``particle`` (or zero, if ``particle``
  represented an element or isotope with no charge
  information. Previously, if we represented a proton with
  :py:`particle="H-1"` and :py:`z_mean=1`, then the mass used to
  calculate the plasma frequency would have been the mass of a neutral
  hydrogen atom rather than the mass of a proton. However, using
  :py:`particle="p+"` would have produced the correct mass. This
  behavior has been corrected by decorating this function with
  |particle_input|. See also :issue:`2178` and :pr:`2179`. (:pr:`2026`)
- The ``plasmapy.analysis.nullpoint._vector_space`` function now returns a
  list for its delta values instead of an array. (:pr:`2133`)


Improved Documentation
----------------------

- Enabled `sphinx-codeautolink
  <https://sphinx-codeautolink.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to make code
  examples clickable and give quick access to API documentation. (:pr:`1410`)
- Added an example notebook on ionization states in the solar wind.
  (:pr:`1513`)
- Moved the location of the changelog pages for past releases from
  :file:`docs/whatsnew/` to :file:`docs/changelog/`, and set up
  appropriate redirects. (:pr:`1639`)
- Removed outdated instructions on installing the development version
  of PlasmaPy contained in :file:`docs/contributing/install_dev.rst`.
  (:pr:`1656`)
- Converted :file:`docs/CONTRIBUTING.rst` to :file:`.github/contributing.md`.
  (:pr:`1656`)
- Added a new page to the |contributor guide| on the
  |code contribution workflow|, replacing content previously contained in
  the |coding guide|. (:pr:`1656`)
- Added a page to the |contributor guide| on |getting ready to contribute|.
  (:pr:`1656`)
- Updated docstrings in `plasmapy.formulary.collisions.frequencies`.
  (:pr:`1793`)
- Updated the docstring for |particle_input|. (:pr:`1883`)
- Updated the introductory paragraphs to the |contributor guide|. (:pr:`2014`)
- Moved PlasmaPy's `vision statement
  <https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7734998>`__
  from the online documentation to a Zenodo record. (:pr:`2017`)
- Restructured the |documentation guide| by putting information on writing
  documentation prior to instructions for building documentation. (:pr:`2038`)
- Restructured the |testing guide| by putting information on writing
  tests prior to instructions for running tests. (:pr:`2041`)
- Updated the introduction on the documentation landing page and the
  citation instructions. (:pr:`2055`)
- Updated the |changelog guide|. (:pr:`2059`)
- Added admonitions for functionality that is under development and for
  which backwards incompatible changes might occur in the future. (:pr:`2112`)
- Updated the code contribution workflow instructions in the |contributor
  guide|
  to reflect that first-time contributors should add themselves to the author
  list in :file:`CITATION.cff` instead of in ``docs/about/credits.rst``. (:pr:`2155`)
- Added functionality to automatically generate the author list included
  in ``docs/about/credits.rst`` directly from :file:`CITATION.cff`. The script
  is located at :file:`docs/cff_to_rst.py`. (:pr:`2156`)


Trivial/Internal Changes
------------------------

- Included Python 3.11 in continuous integration tests. (:pr:`1775`)
- Turned the root-level :file:`requirements.txt` into a lockfile for continuous
  integration purposes. (:pr:`1864`)
- Enabled the particle creation factory in
  ``plasmapy.particles._factory`` used by |particle_input| to create
  |CustomParticle| instances of an element or isotope with a
  |charge number| that is a real number but not an integer. (:pr:`1884`)
- Implemented the new private |CustomParticle| constructor from
  :pr:`1881` into the private particle creation factory used by
  |particle_input|. (:pr:`1884`)
- Dropped ``dlint`` from the tests requirements, as it is no longer
  being maintained. (:pr:`1906`)
- Modified |particle_input| to allow |CustomParticle|\ -like objects with
  a defined charge to be passed through to decorated functions when a
  |parameter| to that function annotated with |ParticleLike| is named
  ``ion``. Previously, only |Particle| objects representing ions or
  neutral atoms were allowed to pass through when the parameter was named
  ``ion``. (:pr:`2034`)
- Updated package metadata in :file:`pyproject.toml`. (:pr:`2075`)
- Set minimum versions for all explicitly listed dependencies. (:pr:`2075`)
- Enabled and applied changes for additional rule sets for |ruff|, and
  removed corresponding ``flake8`` extensions. (:pr:`2080`)
- Changed from ``indexserver`` to ``PIP_INDEX_URL`` to index nightly `numpy`
  builds (:pr:`2138`)
- Updated the function and docstring of
  `~plasmapy.formulary.collisions.helio.collisional_analysis`. (:pr:`2151`)
- Dropped ``flake8`` and its extensions as linters. Instead, |ruff| is now used as
  the primary linter. (:pr:`2170`)
- Expanded the variety of arguments that could be provided to a function
  decorated by `~plasmapy.utils.decorators.converter.angular_freq_to_hz`,
  and refactored this decorator to use ``wrapt``. (:pr:`2175`)
