PlasmaPy v2024.2.0 (2024-02-06)
===============================

Backwards Incompatible Changes
------------------------------

- Created new `~plasmapy.simulation.particle_tracker.ParticleTracker`
  object for general particle pushing simulations involving
  electromagnetic fields. The tracker replaces the old
  ``~plasmapy.simulation.particletracker.ParticleTracker``. (:pr:`2245`)
- Imports of classes and functions from `plasmapy.utils` must now be made
  directly from the subpackages and modules, rather than from `plasmapy.utils`
  itself. (:pr:`2403`)
- Moved ``mass_density`` and its alias ``rho_`` from `plasmapy.formulary.misc`
  to `plasmapy.formulary.densities`. (:pr:`2410`)


Features
--------

- Added a ``notch`` argument to
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.thomson.spectral_density`,
  which allows users to output spectrum over one or multiple wavelength
  ranges to correspond to a notch filter commonly applied to experimentally
  measured Thomson scattering spectra. Changed the
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.thomson.spectral_density_model` function to allow
  ``notch`` to be applied during fitting. (:pr:`2058`)
- Changed unit annotations to |Quantity| type hint annotations. (:pr:`2421`)
- Enabled |particle_input| to decorate functions which have variadic
  positional arguments followed by keyword arguments. See :issue:`2150`.
  (:pr:`2428`)
- Added a ``random_seed`` keyword in
  the
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.synthetic_radiography.Tracker.create_particles`
  method of the
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.synthetic_radiography.Tracker`
  class
  to make the function deterministic to resolve intermittent test failures.
  (:pr:`2487`)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Enabled |particle_input| to be compatible with postponed evaluation of
  annotations (see :pep:`563`). (:pr:`2479`)


Improved Documentation
----------------------

- Switched from ``sphinx_toolbox.collapse`` to ``sphinx_collapse`` for
  including collapsible content in our documentation. (:pr:`2387`)
- Added a discussion of |type hint annotations| in the |testing guide|
  within the |contributor guide|. (:pr:`2440`)


Trivial/Internal Changes
------------------------

- Added Python 3.12 to the suite of continuous integration tests. (:pr:`2368`)
- Added a GitHub Action that will create an issue containing a release
  checklist, which will largely supersede the release process outlined
  in the |contributor guide|. (:pr:`2376`)
- Separated the GitHub Action for checking hyperlinks in the
  documentation into its own GitHub Action. (:pr:`2392`)
- Replaced |black| with |ruff| in the |pre-commit| configuration. (:pr:`2394`)
- Modified the ``__exit__`` method of ``HDF5Reader`` for context management.
  (:pr:`2402`)
- Added an initial configuration for |mypy| that temporarily ignores existing
  errors. (:pr:`2424`)
- Added a |tox| environment for running |mypy|. (:pr:`2431`)
- Added |mypy| to the suite of continuous integration checks. (:pr:`2432`)
- Used ``autotyping`` to implement |type hint annotations| for special
  methods like ``__init__`` and ``__str__``, and changed ``-> typing.NoReturn``
  annotations to ``-> None``. (:pr:`2437`)
- Used ``autotyping`` to add :py:`-> None` return annotations to functions
  and methods with no :py:`return` statement. (:pr:`2439`)
- Added a stub file containing |type hint annotations| for
  ``@wrapt.decorator``. (:pr:`2442`)
- Improved |type hint annotations| for `plasmapy.particles.decorators`,
  which includes |particle_input|, and the corresponding tests. (:pr:`2443`)
- Dropped the |pre-commit| hook for ``isort`` and enabled all ``isort``
  rules in |ruff|. (:pr:`2453`)
- Added a :file:`py.typed` marker to indicate that PlasmaPy contains
  type hint annotations as per :pep:`561`. (:pr:`2473`)
- Changed ``_nearest_neighbor_interpolator`` method in `~plasmapy.plasma.grids`
  to interpolate quantities array instead of producing an intermediate index.
  (:pr:`2475`)
- Enabled the ``sphinx`` linkchecker in quiet mode to make it easier to find
  problem links from the console output. (:pr:`2476`)
- Bumped the minimum versions of dependencies to drop support for
  minor releases older than two years old. In particular, the minimum
  version of NumPy was bumped to ``1.23.0``. (:pr:`2488`)
