PlasmaPy v2024.5.0 (2024-05-08)
===============================

New Features
------------

- Added the `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle.nucleus`
  attribute of |Particle|. (:pr:`2538`)
- Replaced ``plasmapy.utils.data.downloader.get_file`` with a new
  class `~plasmapy.utils.data.downloader.Downloader` with a method
  `~plasmapy.utils.data.downloader.Downloader.get_file` which
  downloads resource files from |PlasmaPy's data
  repository|. (:pr:`2570`)
- Added support for new ``background``, ``ion_mu`` and ``ion_z``
  fitting parameters to the
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.thomson.spectral_density_model`
  function. (:pr:`2636`)


Documentation Improvements
--------------------------

- Added the ``internal`` category for changelog entries, which will be
  used to denote refactorings with minimal impact on the API, and
  updated the |changelog guide| to reflect these changes. (:pr:`2441`)
- Updated the docstring of |particle_input| to indicate that annotations
  for optional parameters should now be :py:`ParticleLike | None` or
  :py:`ParticleListLike | None`. (:pr:`2505`)
- Added known limitations of |particle_input| to its docstring. (:pr:`2516`)
- Removed references to PlasmaPy's Twitter account, which is no longer
  used.  (:pr:`2522`)
- Updated the docstring for `~plasmapy.formulary.lengths.gyroradius`
  to finish an unfinished sentence. (:pr:`2560`)
- Updated the instructions in the |documentation guide| on how to
  build PlasmaPy's documentation locally. (:pr:`2565`)
- Fixed a typo in description of
  `~plasmapy.formulary.densities.mass_density`.  (:pr:`2588`)
- Updated the |testing guide| to reflect recent performance
  improvements with tox via the ``tox-uv`` extension, and the
  |documentation guide| to reflect that the documentation is now built
  with |Nox| instead of tox (:pr:`2590`)
- Added examples to the docstring for
  `~plasmapy.formulary.radiation.thermal_bremsstrahlung`. (:pr:`2618`)
- Updated the dependency version support policy in the |coding guide|.
  (:pr:`2670`)


Backwards Incompatible Changes
------------------------------

- Changed the minimum required version of Python from 3.9 to
  3.10. (:pr:`2501`)
- Modified `~plasmapy.particles.atomic.common_isotopes`,
  `~plasmapy.particles.atomic.known_isotopes`, and
  `~plasmapy.particles.atomic.known_isotopes` to each return a
  |ParticleList|. (:pr:`2559`)
- Added a new keyword ``particlewise`` to the method
  `~plasmapy.particles.particle_collections.ParticleList.is_category`
  of |ParticleList|, which now causes the function to return a `bool`
  for the whole list by default.  The old functionality is still
  available by setting ``particlewise`` to `True`. (:pr:`2648`)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Fixed an error when :py:`lorentzfactor` and multiple particles are
  provided to `~plasmapy.formulary.lengths.gyroradius`. (:pr:`2542`)
- Required UTF-8 encoding to be used for generating citation output.
  (:pr:`2578`)
- Fixed a bug in |particle_input| where particle categorization
  criteria had not been applied to arguments that became a
  |ParticleList|. (:pr:`2594`)
- Made `~plasmapy.diagnostics.thomson.spectral_density_model`
  compatible with the new version of ``lmfit==1.3.0``. (:pr:`2623`)
- Fixed a bug when
  `~plasmapy.formulary.radiation.thermal_bremsstrahlung` is given
  multiple input density values. (:pr:`2627`)
- Fixed the requirements file used by binder to open
  notebooks. (:pr:`2672`)


Internal Changes and Refactorings
---------------------------------

- Changed type hint annotations to be consistent with :pep:`604`. Most
  type unions are now made using the ``|`` operator rather than with
  `typing.Union`. (:pr:`2504`)
- Refactored, parametrized, and expanded the tests for
  `~plasmapy.formulary.lengths.Debye_length`. (:pr:`2509`)
- Changed type hint annotations that used `numbers.Integral`,
  `numbers.Real`, or `numbers.Complex` to instead use `int`, `float`,
  or `complex`, respectively. (:pr:`2520`)
- Created a tox environment for regenerating requirements files used
  in continuous integration (CI) and by integrated development
  environments (IDEs). This environment is now what is being used in
  the automated pull requests to regenerate requirements
  files. Switching from ``pip-compile`` to ``uv pip compile`` now
  allows requirements files to be created for multiple versions of
  Python, as well as for minimal versions of dependencies.
  (:pr:`2523`)
- Reduced the :wikipedia:`cognitive complexity` of
  `~plasmapy.formulary.lengths.gyroradius`. (:pr:`2542`)
- Added and updated type hint annotations within `plasmapy.formulary`.
  (:pr:`2543`)
- Applied caching through |GitHub Actions| to speed up continuous
  integration tests and documentation builds. Because the Python
  environments used by tox to run tests no longer need to be recreated
  every time tests are run, caching speeds up several continuous
  integration tests by ∼2–3 minutes.  See :issue:`2585` to learn more
  about recent efforts to drastically speed up PlasmaPy's continuous
  integraiton checks. (:pr:`2552`)
- Removed :file:`setup.py`. (:pr:`2558`)
- Added ``sphinx-lint`` as a |pre-commit| hook to find
  reStructuredText errors. (:pr:`2561`)
- Enabled the `tox-uv <https://github.com/tox-dev/tox-uv>`_ plugin to
  tox, so that package installation, caching, and the creation of
  virtual environments will be handled by |uv| instead of |pip|. This
  change makes it faster to run tests both locally and via |GitHub
  Actions|. (:pr:`2584`)
- Changed the project structure to an `src
  layout
  <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/discussions/src-layout-vs-flat-layout/>`__
  to follow the updated recommendation from the Python Packaging
  Authority's `packaging guide <https://packaging.python.org/>`__. The
  motivation for this change is described in :issue:`2581`. Source
  code previously in :file:`plasmapy/` is now located in
  :file:`src/plasmapy/` and tests are now in a separate :file:`tests`
  directory. Tests previously in :file:`plasmapy/**/tests/` are now in
  :file:`tests/**/`, where :file:`**` refers to an arbitrary number of
  subdirectories. For example, the source code of `plasmapy.formulary`
  is now located in :file:`src/plasmapy/formulary/` and the tests for
  `plasmapy.formulary` are now in
  :file:`tests/formulary/`. (:pr:`2598`)
- Reconfigured the auto-generated requirements files used during
  continuous integration and for documentation builds, while adding
  corresponding documentation.  (:pr:`2650`)
- Added :file:`noxfile.py` as a configuration file for |Nox|. This
  file initially contains environments for building documentation,
  checking hyperlinks, and performing static type checking with |mypy|
  (:pr:`2654`)
- Began using |Nox| for some testing environments in |GitHub Actions|,
  including for the documentation build and static type
  checking. (:pr:`2656`)


Additional Changes
------------------

- Updated type hint annotations in `plasmapy.particles`. (:pr:`2458`)
- Added ``pytest-rerunfailures`` to the ``tests`` set of dependencies
  defined in :file:`pyproject.toml`, and applied it to a test that
  experiences intermittent failures. (:pr:`2483`)
- Added a flag to `~plasmapy.plasma.grids.AbstractGrid.require_quantities`
  to silence warnings when a quantity is not provided and is assumed
  to be zero everywhere. Modified
  ``plasmapy.simulation.particle_tracker.ParticleTracker`` to not
  display this warning for the :math:`\mathbf{E}` and
  :math:`\mathbf{B}` field components, since one of these is often not
  explicitly provided.  (:pr:`2519`)
- Removed |pytest| as a runtime dependency. (:pr:`2525`)
- Removed the unused ``py310-conda`` tox environment. (:pr:`2526`)
- Exposed `~plasmapy.formulary.dielectric.StixTensorElements` and
  `~plasmapy.formulary.dielectric.RotatingTensorElements` to the
  public API. (:pr:`2543`)
- Added tests to verify correctness of two properties in
  `~plasmapy.formulary.collisions.frequencies.MaxwellianCollisionFrequencies`.
  (:pr:`2614`)
