PlasmaPy v0.7.0 (2021-11-18)
============================

This release of PlasmaPy contains 127 commits in 73 merged pull requests closing 37 issues from 19 people, 14 of which are first-time contributors to PlasmaPy.

* 127 commits have been added since 0.6
* 37 issues have been closed since 0.6
* 73 pull requests have been merged since 0.6
* 19 people have contributed since 0.6
* 14 of which are new contributors

The people who have contributed to the code for this release are:

-  Alf Köhn-Seemann  *
-  Andrew  *
-  Armando Salcido  *
-  Dominik Stańczak
-  FinMacDov  *
-  Marco Gorelli  *
-  Nick Murphy
-  Nicolas Lequette  *
-  Peter Heuer
-  Quettle  *
-  RAJAGOPALAN-GANGADHARAN  *
-  Sjbrownian  *
-  Tiger Du
-  Tomás Stinson  *
-  bryancfoo  *
-  dependabot[bot]  *
-  haman80  *
-  pre-commit-ci[bot]  *
-  rocco8773

Where a * indicates that this release contains their first contribution to PlasmaPy.

Backwards Incompatible Changes
------------------------------

- Removed alias ``tfds_`` to
  ``plasmapy.dispersion.two_fluid_dispersion.two_fluid_dispersion_solution``,
  with the reasoning behind the removal outlined in the pull request. (`#1101 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1101>`__)
- Removed the ``Tracker.synthetic_radiograph()`` method and created the
  standalone function
  :func:`~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.synthetic_radiograph`
  in its place.  This new function takes either a
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker` object or
  a dictionary equivalent to
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker.results_dict`. (`#1134 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1134>`__)
- Renamed subpackage ``plasmapy.diagnostics.proton_radiography`` to
  `plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography`, and renamed the
  ``SyntheticProtonRadiograph`` class within that module to
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker`. (`#1134 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1134>`__)
- `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker` no longer
  supports making changes to an instantiated object and
  re-running the simulation.  Subsequent simulations should be performed
  by instantiating a new
  `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker` object and
  running its simulation. (`#1134 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1134>`__)
- For `~plasmapy.plasma.grids.CartesianGrid` the
  `~plasmapy.plasma.grids.CartesianGrid.volume_averaged_interpolator`
  now returns `numpy.nan` values for any interpolation not bounded by
  the grid points. (`#1173 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1173>`__)
- Renamed file :file:`two_fluid_dispersion.py` to :file:`two_fluid_.py`
  and moved it into the `plasmapy.dispersion.analytical` subpackage.  The
  function ``two_fluid_dispersion_solution()`` contained within that file
  was renamed to `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical.two_fluid_.two_fluid`. (`#1208 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1208>`__)
- Changed |ParticleList| so that if it is provided with no arguments, then it creates
  an empty |ParticleList|.  This behavior is analogous to how `list` and `tuple` work. (`#1223 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1223>`__)
- Changed the behavior of |Particle| in equality comparisons. Comparing a
  |Particle| with an object that is not :term:`particle-like` will now
  return `False` instead of raising a `TypeError`. (`#1225 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1225>`__)
- Changed the behavior of `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.CustomParticle`
  so that it returns `False` when compared for equality with another type.
  Previously, a `TypeError` was raised. (`#1315 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1315>`__)


Deprecations and Removals
-------------------------

- In `plasmapy.particles`, use of the term "integer charge" has
  been deprecated in favor of the term "charge number". The
  `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle.integer_charge` attribute
  of |Particle| has been deprecated in favor of
  `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle.charge_number`. The
  `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state.IonicLevel.integer_charge`
  attribute of |IonicLevel| (formerly ``IonicFraction``) has been
  deprecated in favor of
  `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state.IonicLevel.charge_number`. The
  `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state.IonizationState.integer_charges`
  attribute of |IonizationState| has been deprecated in favor of
  `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state.IonizationState.charge_numbers`. (`#1136 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1136>`__)
- The ``particle`` attribute of |Particle|
  has been removed after having been deprecated in 0.6.0. (`#1146 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1146>`__)
- Use more generalized keyword argument ``T`` instead of ``T_i`` in ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.gyroradius``.
  The ``T_i`` argument has been deprecated and will be removed in a subsequent release. (`#1210 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1210>`__)


Features
--------

- Add the `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state.IonizationState.average_ion`
  method to |IonizationState|. (`#1028 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1028>`__)
- Added the
  `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state_collection.IonizationStateCollection.average_ion`
  method to |IonizationStateCollection|. (`#1028 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1028>`__)
- Added the ``plasmapy.formulary.mathematics.Chandrasekhar_G`` function, which is
  helpful in neoclassical transport theory. This change was
  reverted in `#1233 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1233>`__. (`#1084 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1084>`__)
- Enabled slicing of |IonizationState| instances to return a list of
  |IonicLevel| instances. (`#1130 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1130>`__)
- |IonizationState| instances can now be compared to an |IonizationState|
  of a different element without raising an exception. (`#1130 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1130>`__)
- Allowed `len` to be used on |IonizationState| instances. (`#1130 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1130>`__)
- |IonicLevel| and |IonizationState| now accept an additional, optional ion
  temperature argument for each of the ionic levels. (`#1130 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1130>`__)
- Added the
  :meth:`~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker.save_results`
  method to `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.Tracker`
  for saving results to the :file:`.npz` file format (see `numpy.lib.format` for
  details on the file format). (`#1134 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1134>`__)
- Added the `plasmapy.utils.decorators.deprecation` module. The module includes
  `~plasmapy.utils.decorators.deprecation.deprecated`, which is a decorator that
  is based on `astropy.utils.decorators.deprecated`. (`#1136 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1136>`__)
- Created the `~plasmapy.particles.ionization_state.IonizationState.to_list`
  method of |IonizationState| to provide a |ParticleList| instance that
  contains the different ionic levels. (`#1154 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1154>`__)
- The behavior of the function ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.gyroradius`` has
  been changed. If `numpy.nan` values are provided for ``T_i`` or ``Vperp``,
  then instead of raising a slightly misleading error, `numpy.nan` in the
  appropriate units is returned. (`#1187 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1187>`__)
- Added the `~plasmapy.particles.particle_collections.ParticleList.average_particle`
  method to |ParticleList|. This method returns a particle with the mean mass and
  charge of the |ParticleList|. The ``use_rms_charge`` and ``use_rms_mass`` keyword
  arguments make this method calculate the root mean square charge and mass, respectively.
  The ``abundances`` keyword argument allows the calculation of the mean or root
  mean square to be weighted. (`#1204 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1204>`__)
- Restructured the `plasmapy.dispersion` subpackage by creating the
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical` subpackage to contain functionality
  related to analytical dispersion solutions. (`#1208 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1208>`__)
- Implemented ``__eq__``, ``__ne__`` and ``__hash__`` to allow
  |CustomParticle| instances to be used as `dict` keys. (`#1216 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1216>`__)
- Added the `~plasmapy.particles.particle_collections.ionic_levels` function to create a
  |ParticleList| initialized with different ionic levels of an element or isotope. (`#1223 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1223>`__)


Bug Fixes
---------

- Made |Particle| instances pickleable. (`#1122 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1122>`__)
- Fixed the behavior of ``plasmapy.formulary.mathematics.Chandrasekhar_G``
  at very small and very large argument values. This change was reverted
  in `#1233 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1233>`__. (`#1125 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1125>`__)
- Running `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.synthetic_radiograph`
  with the keyword ``optical_density=True`` will now return `numpy.inf`
  where the source profile intensity is zero. Previously, an incorrect value
  was returned since zero entries were replaced with values of ``1`` before
  taking the logarithm. (`#1134 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1134>`__)
- Fixed a bug in the volume-averaged interpolator for
  `~plasmapy.plasma.grids.CartesianGrid`
  (`~plasmapy.plasma.grids.CartesianGrid.volume_averaged_interpolator`).
  The old method miss interpreted where the interpolation point was
  inside the nearest neighbor cell volume. So, if an interpolation point
  was at the lower bounds of the nearest neighbor cell volume, then the
  position was flipped and interpreted as being at the upper bounds of the
  cell volume, and visa-versa. (`#1173 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1173>`__)
- Fixed the normalization of the wavevector in the Thomson spectral
  density function,
  :func:`~plasmapy.diagnostics.thomson.spectral_density`. The previous
  version was not properly normalizing the wavevector to unity. (`#1190 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1190>`__)
- Reverted most of
  `#1084 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1084>`__ and
  `#1125 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1125>`__,
  removing our implementation of the
  Chandrasekhar G function (for now!). This function may get brought
  back at a later date, once we have an implementation we numerically
  trust. (`#1233 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1233>`__)


Improved Documentation
----------------------

- Improved consistency of documentation style and made
  reST_ fixes in several subpackages. (`#1073 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1073>`__)
- Added a pre-release section to the |release guide|.
  This section now includes steps for having a feature freeze about a week before the release,
  followed by a code freeze about two days before the release. (`#1081 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1081>`__)
- Created the Sphinx_ extension package `plasmapy_sphinx` and used it to replace
  `sphinx_automodapi`_.  `plasmapy_sphinx` creates directives :rst:dir:`automodapi`
  and :rst:dir:`automodsumm` to replace the same directives defined by
  `sphinx_automodapi`_.  The documentation was updated so the slight syntax differences
  in the newly defined directives will still render the same as before. (`#1105 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1105>`__)
- The term "integer charge" has been replaced in the documentation with
  the term "charge number". (`#1136 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1136>`__)
- Implemented a framework to define and use common `Sphinx substitutions
  <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html
  #substitutions>`__ across the narrative documentation and docstrings.
  These substitutions are defined in :file:`docs/common_links.rst`. (`#1147 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1147>`__)
- Began a project glossary at :file:`docs/glossary.rst`. (`#1149 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1149>`__)
- Changed the default branch name to ``main``.  Locations in the code
  and documentation that referred to the default branch of PlasmaPy (and
  certain other packages) were changed to reflect the new name (including,
  for example, in the development guide in the documentation). (`#1150 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1150>`__)
- Updated information on how to write and build documentation in the
  development guide. (`#1156 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1156>`__)
- Updated information on how to write and run tests in the |contributor guide|.
  (`#1163 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1163>`__)
- Created an outline of a page in the development guide to describe the workflow
  required to contribute to PlasmaPy. (`#1178 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1178>`__)
- Added brief description about the physics of the upper-hybrid resonance
  to the docstring of the function ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.upper_hybrid_frequency``. (`#1180 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1180>`__)
- Added a brief description about the physics of the lower-hybrid resonance
  to the docstring of the function ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.lower_hybrid_frequency``. (`#1181 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1181>`__)
- Made the function ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.gyrofrequency`` more general
  by removing the indications that it might only work for ions. (`#1183 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1183>`__)
- Make `plasmapy.analysis.fit_functions.AbstractFitFunction.FitParamTuple` a
  property to fix the documentation build warning caused by the release
  of Sphinx_ ``v4.1.0``. (`#1199 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1199>`__)
- Included a step in the |release guide| to update Binder requirements
  so that the release of PlasmaPy on PyPI_ gets installed when opening
  example notebooks from the stable and release branches of the online
  documentation. (`#1205 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1205>`__)
- Updated the |documentation guide| to include updates to tox_ environments
  for building the documentation. (`#1206 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1206>`__)
- Fixed numerous broken reST_ links in prior changelogs. (`#1207 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1207>`__)
- Improve the docstring for `plasmapy.online_help`. (`#1213 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1213>`__)
- Renamed "Development Guide" to "Contributor Guide", and temporarily removed
  the incomplete :file:`docs/development/workflow.rst` from the ``toctree`` of the
  Contributor Guide. (`#1217 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1217>`__)
- Fixed a typo in the docstring of ``plasmapy.formulary.parameters.Alfven_speed``. (`#1218 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1218>`__)
- Fixed broken reST_ links in docstrings for aliases in `plasmapy.formulary`. (`#1238 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1238>`__)
- Fixed multiple broken and redirected links. (`#1257 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1257>`__)
- Updated the |documentation guide| to include a description on how to
  add and cite references to PlasmaPy's global bibliography BibTeX_ file,
  :file:`docs/bibliography.bib`. (`#1263 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1263>`__)
- Added sphinxcontrib-bibtex_ as a Sphinx_ extension to enable references
  to be stored in a BibTeX_ file. (`#1263 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1263>`__)
- Began a documentation-wide |bibliography| page. (`#1263 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1263>`__)
- Updated the |documentation guide| to describe where formulae should go in
  docstrings and how to use |glossary| entries. (`#1264 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1264>`__)
- Updated and fixed hyperlinks in the documentation. (`#1267 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1267>`__)
- Adopted the ``"xcode"`` code highlighting style for
  pygments_ to increase color contrast and improve web accessibility. (`#1268 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1268>`__)
- Updated the feedback and communication page. (`#1272 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1272>`__)
- Updated the requirements for the documentation build to include no
  restrictions on ``docutils`` and ``sphinx_rtd_theme >= 1.0.0``.
  ``docutils == 0.17`` is not compatible with ``sphinx_rtd_theme < 1.0``
  (see `#1107 <https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/1107>`__ and
  `#1230 <https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/issues/1230>`__). (`#1275 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1275>`__)
- Added a screenshot of the link for the `Read the Docs`_ preview of the
  documentation for a pull request. (`#1298 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1298>`__)
- Incorporated citations in the
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical.two_fluid_.two_fluid` docstring into
  the PlasmaPy |bibliography| framework. (`#1301 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1301>`__)


Trivial/Internal Changes
------------------------

- Simplified handling of package dependencies.  Removed duplicated
  requirements files and centralized them instead. Developer dependencies
  can now be installed with either ``pip install plasmapy[developer]`` or
  ``pip install -r requirements.txt``. (`#789 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/789>`__)
- Reconfigured flake8_ settings in CI. (`#1062 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1062>`__)
- Added pydocstyle_ to continuous integration (CI), to hopefully make
  writing prettier docstrings easier. (`#1062 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1062>`__)
- Added ``flake8-rst-docstrings`` to catch reST_ formatting
  errors in documentation in the linter stage of
  CI. (`#1062 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1062>`__)
- Added `pytest-regressions
  <https://pytest-regressions.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ to testing
  dependencies, to make regression tests a little easier to write. (`#1084 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1084>`__)
- Fixed a minor error in the :math:`\mathbf{E} × \mathbf{B}` drift
  notebook. (`#1088 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1088>`__)
- Upgrade ``nbqa`` to latest available version (0.6.0). (`#1104 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1104>`__)
- Moved our custom `pre-commit`_ style testing suite to ``pre-commit.ci``,
  taking advantage of the new ``pre-commit.ci autofix`` command that
  allows manually calling for pre-commit to be run by typing
  that command as a comment to a pull request. (`#1106 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1106>`__)
- Added tests using hypothesis_. (`#1125 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1125>`__)
- Added to :file:`setup.cfg` the configuration
  ``flake8.per-file-ignores=plasmapy/formulary/__init__.py:F403`` to
  ignore warnings resulting from imports like ``from xx import *``. (`#1127 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1127>`__)
- Re-enabled several flake8_ checks by removing the following codes from
  the ``flake8.extend-ignore`` configuration in :file:`setup.cfg`: ``D100``, ``D102``,
  ``D103``, ``D104``, ``D200``, ``D210``, ``D301``, ``D401``, ``D407``,
  ``D409``, ``D412``, ``E712``, ``E713``, ``F403``, ``F541``, ``RST213``,
  ``RST306``, and ``RST902``. Addressed any failed linter checks from this
  modification. (`#1127 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1127>`__)
- `~plasmapy.diagnostics.charged_particle_radiography.synthetic_radiograph`
  now determines the default detector size to be the smallest detector
  plane centered on the origin that includes all particles. (`#1134 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1134>`__)
- Added ion velocity input to the :file:`thomson.ipynb` diagnostics notebook. (`#1171 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1171>`__)
- Added tox_ and removed pytest_ as extra requirements. (`#1195 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1195>`__)
- Updated tox_ test environments for building the documentation. Added the
  ``build_docs_nitpicky`` environment to check for broken reST_ links. (`#1206 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1206>`__)
- Added the ``--keep-going`` flag to the ``build_docs*`` tox_ environments with
  the ``-W`` option so that test failures will not stop after the first warning
  (that is treated as an error). (`#1206 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1206>`__)
- Make queries to `plasmapy.online_help` for ``"quantity"`` or ``"quantities"`` redirect to the
  help page for `astropy.units` (which was already the case for ``"unit"`` and ``"units"``). (`#1213 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1213>`__)
- Bumped the Python_ version for `Read the Docs`_ builds from ``3.7`` to ``3.8``. (`#1248 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1248>`__)
- Refactored :file:`plasmapy/dispersion/tests/test_dispersion.py` to use
  hypothesis_ for property based testing. (`#1249 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1249>`__)
- Defined redirects to allow and anchors to avoid checking when using Sphinx_
  to verify that hyperlinks are correct via ``make linkcheck``. (`#1267 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1267>`__)
- Replaced usage of `eval` inside |IonizationStateCollection| with `getattr`. (`#1280 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1280>`__)
- Added using `dlint <https://github.com/dlint-py/dlint>`__
  to the ``linters`` testing environment in :file:`tox.ini`
  as a static analysis tool to search for security issues. (`#1280 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1280>`__)
- Enabled using
  `flake8-use-fstring <https://github.com/MichaelKim0407/flake8-use-fstring>`__
  in the ``linters`` testing environment in :file:`tox.ini` to enforce
  usage of formatted string literals (f-strings). (`#1281 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1281>`__)
- Switched usage of `str.format` to formatted string literals (f-strings)
  in several files. (`#1281 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1281>`__)
- Added `flake8-absolute-import <https://github.com/bskinn/flake8-absolute-import>`_
  to the ``linters`` tox_ environment. (`#1283 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1283>`__)
- Removed unused imports, and changed several imports from relative to absolute. (`#1283 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1283>`__)
- Added `pre-commit`_ hooks to auto-format :file:`.ini`,
  :file:`.toml`, and :file:`.yaml` files, and applied changes from
  those hooks to existing files. (`#1284 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1284>`__)
- Changed the validated units for the ``theta`` input argument of
  `~plasmapy.dispersion.analytical.two_fluid_.two_fluid` from degrees to
  radians. (`#1301 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1301>`__)
- Replaced usage of ``distutils.version.StrictVersion`` with
  ``packaging.version.Version`` because ``distutils`` has been deprecated.
  As part of this change, `packaging <https://packaging.pypa.io/en/latest>`__ has been
  added as a dependency. (`#1306 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1306>`__)
- Increased the minimum version of matplotlib to 3.3.0 and updated
  `plasmapy.diagnostics.langmuir.swept_probe_analysis` to be compatible
  with matplotlib 3.5.0. (`#1334 <https://github.com/plasmapy/plasmapy/pull/1334>`__)
